---
title: "The flexibility of Milky Way Maps"
date: "2024-05-28T12:00:00Z"
meta:  "The flexibility of Milky Way Maps"
summary: "Reflecting on a unique service I designed"
tags:
- enterprise-design
- systems-thinking
- strategic-design
- service-design
---
Several years ago I worked on a large government service. This service was to be a temporary service stood up for a fixed period and then closed down. It was a unique proposition to consider, often the services I design or contribute towards are intended to run until the need is met, which can be many years.

I thought of this as a live events service, it needed to be stood up quickly and with only a small amount of notice for a fixed period. There were many people involved in the service including multiple external contractors. As the service grew in complexity and answers required needed to be more precise . As people began using specific jargon from their industry I observed they would to talk past each other and mis-understand. It became clear to me that we needed a [Boundary Object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boundary_object).

When I had been invovled in the initial creation of the service I had used a [Milky Way Map](https://www.milkyway.international) to align the service to existing processes and describe to senior leaders how it would function. These days (depending upon the intended audience) I may opt to use [EDGY](https://www.enterprise.design), but before EDGY existed I found a  way to get everyone on the same page.

[Enterprise Design](http://intersectionbook.com) models the bigger picture as three qualities:
- Identity (how a person percieves the service)
- Architecture (the articifical structures in place to support the service)
- Experience (the orchesctration of elements that create value for the people consuming the service)

I would model each of these big picture items across the same galaxy map on separate pages. This is because I was dealing with different people with differing levels of understanding, need and complexity. We need the right document at the right time to get the clearest outcome.

-IMAGE

I modeled the Experience as activities. Think simply "What is the activity being performed now to deliver the outcome?". This gave a great place for everyone to understand what was happening.

-IMAGE

Next I colour coded the activity to the entity that owned it.

-IMAGE

This worked well, each of the various stakeholders understood what they needed to do at a glance, what other were doing and the basic sequence that they occured in.

A little while later a senior leader asked me "how can we be sure on the day that everyhing will go as planned?"
I thought about this a while and concluded the answer lay in how communication of information happens. It's one thing to understand what activity you do, you need ot agree the information exchange process, is this through machines, manually by people handing over paper documents, a simple confirmation via phone/text that you recieved a communication? I worked with the respective teams and took the activites map and we added manual and automatic information flows.

- IMAGE

This was really helpful, now we knew who was doing what. We knew how they would recieve information and how they would hand-off to the next person in the chain.
Anywhere where automated process would occur, we could write automated tests to ensure code was working correctly. Where manual processes would occur, we could aggree proceedure and create checks and balances to make sure if something appeares to go wrong it is quickly picked up and dealt with. Pretty great for one document.

The even went without a hitch and everything worked as intended. Later I was approached by a senior leader who was curious what the service cost. I worked with the managers and accountants to understand the cost, but I realised the milky way map would again be useful. We worked out the cost of each activity on the diagram (including hourly rates for staff) and could attribute a cost to each activity performed and the architecure used (mapping from the other diagram) This proved hugely powerful and useful to the executive as they could easily compare costs across the whole service and demonstrate which activites were costly and understand why.

- IMAGE
