---
title: "Month Notes March 2025"
date: "2025-04-05T12:00:00Z"
meta: "March has been a good month"
tags:
- month-notes
- service-design
- research
- data
---

March has been a good month. 

I am going to be a little bit vague in the details and stick to the "design things".

I kicked off the month creating a research plan and doing observations of staff performing their role so we could investigate behaviour change and system issues affecting their roles.

Observations were conducted in one stream. In the other stream we asked staff members (for one week) to complete a simple form after each task (tasks can be a minimum of 30mins but could extend all day in extreme cases). The form told us the nature of the work they were doing and some details around decision making.

This allowed us to compare "observed vs self-observed measurements", and to tie our quantitative and qualitative data together.

Through this data we got a realistic picture of:

- What work staff were doing
- Who they were doing the work for
- How challenging they found the work
- How they decided to resolve the work
- If they required help to complete the task. 

Finally we gave the staff an option to tell us how we could make this task easier for them next time.

This data gave us the perspective from the staff about their role and environment. We compared this data with the observation data to help determine where there are gaps in training and how we can better support staff in their role.

Next we looked at the environment and pressures on the individuals to better understand their behaviours and where we could influence bad behaviours and encourage good behaviours.

Finally we looked at the work demand. What are people actually doing, where is this demand coming from and is this the right work at the right time? This data was invaluable for us to identify system issues that drive unexpected tasks or place pressure on individuals that the wider business is unaware of. Or in some instances is generating busy tasks or additional work we could look to remove through better processes and systems.

It's felt good this month to finally be back working on things that directly make a difference and influence change. Service Design & System Design isn't just about pretty diagrams and talking to stakeholders it's about getting stuck in, doing the hard work and making change happen.