---
layout: "post"
title: "The Loop"
date: "2017-10-15 16:50:00 +/-GMT"
meta: "Modelling all the state(s) of a website"
summary: "Applying The Learning Of Cybernetics To Model State"
category: "Cybernetics"
---

Space exists before wireframes where science and design meet.

Capturing business requirements facilitates understanding in the purpose of the system and the parameters it should operate within. At this point, the norm would involve collating a basic site-map and beginning to formulate system flows.

We cannot design a competent user interface that fulfils our system goals if we do not understand the flow of information through the system. This is the space where Cybernetics lives.


## Requsite Variety

List your system goals (<abbr title="The Point Of A System Is What It Does">POSIWID</abbr>). System goals often align with business goals and extend to encompass a few other basic requirements.

| Business Goals | System Goals |
|:--|:--|
| Increase User Base > 5% | Streamline Common Tasks |
| Increase Conversion Rate | Reduce Complexity  |
| Discontinue old product lines | Business Reporting |
| Update OS | Be Secure |


Collate all the data you need to collect in the system. Leave nothing out. This data is your Inputs.

| Inputs |
|:--|
| First Name |
| Last Name |
| Email Address |
| Password |
| Door Number |
| Street Name |
| Town/City |
| Country |
| Postcode |
| Profile Picture |
| Card Number |
| Card Type |
| Security Code |
| Expiry Date (DD/MM/YYYY) |
| Birthday DD/MM/YYYY |

Collate all data the system will output, including data to 3rd party systems, data made available via an API, everything. This data is your Outputs.

| Output | Web | App | API |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|
|First Name|✓|✓|✓|
|Last Name|✓|✓|✓|
|Email Address|✓|✓|✓|
|User ID|✕|✕|✓|

Collate all the data from your input list that is mutated

| Inputs | Mutated Output |
|:--|:--|
| First Name,Last Name | Full Name |
| Door Number,Street Name,City,Country,Postcode | Address |

It may seem odd to try and ascertain what data a system needs before, completing user flows, IA etc. However, this exercise  forces you to think upfront about the building blocks to your system **and** question the need for the data upfront. Simultaneously allowing you to consider user needs and business needs. Don’t ask in a system for what you don’t need and justify the need to keep users data. Give it the respect it deservers.

The data in the tables provides the framework for the system. Once the data required is understood, mapping how the information will flow through our system to achieve the inputs and output required is our next goal.


//REQUISTE VARIETY!!!
//REWRITE.
During a project, you may encounter the 'churn'.This is a point when a screen, key piece of data or part of the user interface falls down in some way. As the effects reach out into other parts of the system a ripple effect occurs and many bugs can (and do) occur. Some go unknown or effect the system in unpredictable manners causing further headaches.

You may also have worked on projects when screens are missing completely or produce unexpected endpoints due to unknown behaviour or a lack of joined up thinking in how parts of the system can or need to behave.

Many of these situations are avoidable and can be prevented through a cybernetic model I have devised.

- Discuss Requisite Variety.
- Talk about screen state. Understanding the whole.
- insert diagram.
- Discuss wiring into pattern libraries.


Map the Inputs and Outputs to a page.
Each unique state is determined by new or compound inputs.

User State -> Application State -> Page state -> Component State.

**It becomes clear when noting inputs and outputs on anything over a small scale that the amount of image manipulation required is complex fast. Segway in to Microservices and Stafford Beer?**

Take a fictitious e-commerce store selling a few products and map the Cybernetic Model, compare with User Flows and show the differences.
