---
layout: "post"
title: "The Loop"
date: "2017-06-31 16:50:00 +/-GMT"
meta: "Modelling all the state(s) of a website"
summary: "Applying The Learning Of Cybernetics To Model State"
category: "Cybernetics"
---

Space exists before wireframes where science and design meet.

Capturing business requirements facilitates understanding in the purpose of the system and the parameters it should operate within. At this point, the norm would involve collating a basic site-map and begin sketching wireframes.

We cannot design the user interface if we do not understand the flow of information through the system. This is the space where Cybernetics lives.

During in a project, you may encounter the 'churn'. This is a point when a screen, key piece of data or part of the user interface falls down in some way. As the effects reach out into other parts of the system a ripple effect occurs and many bugs can (and do) occur. Some go unknown or effect the system in unpredictable manners causing further headaches.

You may also have worked on projects when screens are missing completely or produce unexpected endpoints due to unknown behaviour or a lack of joined up thinking in how parts of the system can or need to behave.

Many of these situations are unavoidable and can be prevented through a cybernetic model I have devised.

- Discuss Requisite Variety.
- Talk about screen state. understanding the whole.
- insert diagram.
- discuss wiring into pattern libraries.


Map the Inputs and Outputs to a page.
Each unique state is determined by new or compound inputs.

User State -> Page state -> Component State.

Take a fictitious e-commerce store selling a few products and map the Cybernetic Model, compare with User Flows and show the differences.