---
title: "Weeknotes #3"
timezone: "GMT"
date: "2019-03-09T12:00:00Z"
meta:  "Weeknotes for March 9th 2019"
summary: "Weeknotes for March 9th 2019"
permalink: "/articles/2019/03/09/12-00/index.html"
tags:
- indieweb
- indienews
- syndication
- microformats
- new-zealand
- weeknotes
---

## Microformats

Much of this week has been spent refining my Microformats. I fixed a number of properties that were not parsed correctly, and marked up a few more properties (with help from the IndieWeb community) and [X-Ray](http://xray.p3k.io/) so that when I syndicated to IndieNews the content is output correctly. Awesome!
When I tag content with indienews I can submit the post on the site and syndicate it really easily. Hopefully soon I can automate this completely.

I added support for 2 more experimental Microformat properties, [checkin](https://indieweb.org/checkin) and [audience](https://indieweb.org/audience). Checkin was a no-brainer, I checkin fairly frequently so I should try and support it.

Intended audience is something I am curious over where it goes, it's more of an experiment.  I like the idea of trying to specify which audience the intended readers should be. But even within a subset, I feel context is being lost occasionally. It would be great if another Microformat property existed such as `p-tone` where you could specify if this is a parody, tongue-in-cheek or factual post. I recently saw [Aaron's post with custom emoji's](https://aaronparecki.com/2019/02/25/9/emoji) and this is a fun way to start to convey that type of style, but emoji's are still a little abstract in my mind, although there may be something in this.

## Syndication

I continued my work on syndication this week. I didn't have time to write direct API calls yet (or use an existing library), but I did find 30 minutes to output on each post where it has been syndicated. Little steps but nearly there!

## New Zealand

This week my visa got cleared and we exchanged contracts on my house sale. No going back now, 3 weeks to go and counting ;-)
